Do_SPDX
=======

A configurable SPDX generator module for python.

Overview
--------

The Do_SPDX project looks to extract the spdx generation from the yocto project into an object oriented, flexible, and configurable module in python. The project looks to achieve this through a sleek command line interface, configurable database caching, and implementing the do_spdx functionality in a Python class.

Version
-------

Version 1.0; Changelog can be found [here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md "do_spdx changelog").

License
-------

This software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. Which can be found [here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/LICENSE.md "Apache 2.0 License").

Copyright
---------

Copyright 2014 Corbin Haghawout, Joe Meyer, Ethan Harner under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

Technical Specs
---------------

Assumptions: The user has both MySQL, Python 2.7.6, FOSSology installed. 

You can download the Python 2.7.6 installer [here](https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.6/ "Python 2.7.6 download").

The MySQL installer can be found [here for linux](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/linux-installation.html "MySQL Linux Installation") and [here for windows](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/windows-installation.html "MySQL Windows Installation").

FOSSology can be installed by selecting the appropriate OS distribution [here](http://www.fossology.org/projects/fossology/wiki/Install_2_2).

Your system must meet the minimum system requirements of each of the requirements. As a side note, Python has very low runtime requirements, please make sure you have enough hard disk space to install it.


System Design
-------------

To follow Unix standards, all output will be assumed to go to stdout unless output is clarified in the configuration file they provide.

The database will be implemented in mySql, the open source SQL standard. The schema has been provided to the team by Liang Cao, a University of Nebraska graduate student. [Here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/documentation/database/Database%20Schema.pdf "Database Schema") is the most up-to-date schema.

An image showing a data flow diagram (DFD) of this module can be found [here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/img/DFD.jpg "do_spdx DFD"). The decomposition for this DFD can be found [here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/documentation/dfd/DFD.txt "DFD Decomposition").

Installation
------------  

To install Do_SPDX, clone [this](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX) git repo. Everything should be ready to go from there!

Or

Click the Download ZIP button on the right hand side of the [Do_SPDX](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX)repository.

For detailed use cases, a command line installation use case can be found [here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/documentation/use%20cases/Command%20line%20install.md "Command line install use case") and installing for use within a project can be found [here](https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/documentation/use%20cases/Instantiation%20install.md "Instantiation install use case").

Usage
-----

There are two ways to configure your runtime for Do_SPDX. The first way involves the do_spdx.cfg config file, the other requires a user to supply the values in the config file as arguments on the command line. I recommend using do_spdx.cfg for simplicity and clarity's sake.  

The do_spdx.cfg file contains the current required arguments and their types under the [Setting Schema] section. Use this as a template for your customized cfg file. For a more in depth description of how each argument is used, read the Process section of this README.

To run Do_SPDX, simply execute it with python, e.g.:  
`python do_spdx.py mypackage.tar.gz -c do_spdx.cfg`  

You can also run it quietly by calling it like this:
`python do_spdx.py mypackage.tar.gz -c do_spdx.cfg -q`

Quiet mode disables all file and console output generated by Do_SPDX.

As SPDX consumers, you may wish to force a re-scan of an existing package if you don't trust the scanning device's reported license information. The force option allows you to overwrite the existing license information in the database. __WARNING This will remove any existing license information which may result in irreversible information loss. Use at your own risk.__

For detailed use cases, a command line execution use cases can be found [here] (https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/documentation/use%20cases/Run%20from%20command%20line.md "Command line execution use case") and an instantiation execution use case can be found [here] (https://github.com/chaughawout/Do_SPDX/blob/master/documentation/use%20cases/Run%20from%20instantiated%20object.md "Instantiation execution use case").

Communities of Interest
-----------------------

This project is most closely involved with the SPDX community but is open to anybody who is looking to automate the creation and validation of SPDX documents. Companies who consume or distribute products with open source might be interested in this project as a means to document their licensing for legal reasons. Since this project is licensed under Apache 2.0, any company may do as they wish with the source and tailor a solution from it for their needs.

Communication
-------------

To contribute to this project, please Fork this repo and begin making pull-requests. Any bugs should be reported to this repository's bug tracker so that a developer can pick it up and starting implementing a fix. You should contact the owner at `corbin.haughawout@gmail.com` if you find a potentially devastating problem.

Code Management
---------------

Source will be released in iterative cycles, with milestones set up by priority. The priority of different tasks fall in this order, from highest to lowest:

1. System critical bug-fixes and Failure in Security  An error in the runtime or execution of the software that causes the system to fail or a security vulnerability is exposed. System dependent errors and configuration problems do not fall under this category. 
2. System critical feature additions  Features that are required for the software to execute, i.e. a command line parser, or a database configuration process.
3. Non system critical bug-fixes  An error in the software that results in unexpected behaviour or output, i.e. improperly connecting to the database
4. New Feature additions  New features are sections of code that provide entirely new functionality to the software.
5. Feature improvements  As the lowest priority of tasks, users won't often see this rolling out in a version on it's own until the project is mature and well developed. These are improvements to already existing features, i.e. optimizations, re-implementation of existing code so that it is more efficient, cleaner to read, etc.

All changes and tasks should be documented in the issue tracker at the time of completion. Please document any code you are submitting a pull-request for so that it is easier for the community to read and understand what your addition is doing. 

>Thanks
